# Investigate a Dataset - TMDB Movies by Chiebuka Okoro

# Introduction
## Dataset Description
This data set contains information about 10,866 movies collected from The Movie Database (TMDb), including user ratings and revenue. Certain columns, like ‘cast’ and ‘genres’, contain multiple values separated by pipe (|) characters. The final two columns ending with “_adj” show the budget and revenue of the associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars, accounting for inflation over time. Below are description of each column present in the dataset:

* id - movies primary keys
* imdb_id - movies unique IMDb identification
* popularity - how much that movie page has been visited in the current week on IMDb
* Budget - expected amount (money) the movies should generate
* Revenue - actual amount (money) the movies generated
* Original title - Contains the titles of the movies
* cast - actors that featured in the movies
* homepage - website of the movies
* director - name(s) of the movie director
* tagline - movies catchphrase/slogans
* keywords - keywords that can be used to search for the movie
* overview - a synopsis of the movie
* runtime - duration (minutes) of the movies
* genres - genres and subgenres of the movies
* production_companies - company(ies) that produced the movies
* release_date - date (mm/dd/yyyy) when the movie was released
* vote_count - count of votes for the movies on IMDb
* vote_average - average rating of the movies on IMDb
* release_year - the year the movie was released
* budget_adj - expected amount (money) the movies should generate adjusted to account for inflation over time
* revenue_adj - actual amount (money) the movies generated adjusted to account for inflation over time

# Question(s) for Analysis
The following questions were proposed and answered:

1. What year was the highest revenue generated?
2. Which genre of movie has been dominant over the years?
3. Which of the most produced genre generated the highest revenue?
4. What category of movie based on the recommendation was the highest?
5. What genre of movie has the lowest average runtime?

# Data Wrangling
The data was cleaned following the Data Wrangling Process (Gathering, Assessment, and Cleaning). The gathering process was all about loading the data into a dataframe while the assessment was about getting to know the data (i.e. what will be needed, what won't be needed, and what needs to be corrected). The final wrangling process of cleaning was done based on the observations from the assessment phase.

# Exploratory Analysis
The questions above were answered using appropriate visuals.

# Conclusions
The conclusion will be addressed according to the question numbers.

Question 1: Despite the year 2015 generating the highest revenue overall, the revenue generated over the past 55 years has increased on average.

Question 2 and 3: Despite the fact that the action genre came third in the highest number of movies produced, it managed to generate the highest revenue overall. How? I will recommend that a study be done to understand what and how it happened.

Question 4: Over the years, good movies have been produced but it will be nice to move a significant percentage from Recommended to Highly Recommended. To do this, I will recommend a study be done to understand what can be done to make most Recommended movies Highly Recommended.

Question 5: The history genre racks up a very high runtime average. I will recommend a study be carried out to determine if this plays a role in the low revenue generated by this genre.

# Limitations
The following are the limitations I observed during the course of analyzing this dataset:

1. The missing data in the budget and revenue column restricted me from creating an additional column (revenue - budget). This column will enable us to analyze the profit trend over the years.

2. The user-defined function will have been used in this analysis but as a result of the limitation in one (1) above, it wasn't.
